I'd like to talk about Utopia. This is a big issue for me. When I 1st got on the city council, there were 6 members of the city council who wanted to raise your property taxes for Utopia. I was the only one who didn't want to raise your taxes for Utopia. 

And when the rest of the city council said, "We're gonna raise your property taxes," I did a referendum, the first one in over 40 years in Orem. The last one was on fluoridated water back in the '70s. Well, 

69% of you agreed with me, and we voted against the Orem City Council, against the mayor and the other city council members. 

We said, "No, you're not going to raise our property taxes for Utopia." And that's still my position. Now, those of you that have received, uh, 

flyers from Orem City, you may recall that it has 3 big projects that the, uh, city council is working on this year. The one in the center is Utopia, and they're talking about it, and they're talking about it. And you know what they've come up with so far? 

We're gonna raise [chuckles] a fee or a bond or a tax to expand Utopia. Mayor Brunst has already come out in favor of that, a 15 1000000 dollar bond. He did it back on October 11th. If you go to my website, voteforhance.com, you can hear him say that he is in favor of this 15 1000000 dollar bond, 

and I'm not. One of the differences between my opponent and the opp- the incumbents, uh, who are opposed to my wife, is they think they can fix it. To me, Utopia is a failed system, and if they want to 

use your money [papers rustling] to raise fees, bonds, taxes of any kind, my favor is let you vote on it. I'll never vote to raise your taxes. I'll never vote to put you in a bond, which my opponent has said he will. 

I'll let you vote on it. I'll vote to let you vote. I'll not vote to do that to you myself. 

So far, that's their only solution, is to borrow more money for this failed system. 

They can't get private enterprise to help them, and so they're back at you. But you need to watch. The city manager on this same October 11th 

meeting said he thought that the majority of the Orem City Council was now ready to do some type of financing, 

uh, for Utopia. That was his opinion, the majority of them. Do you know which ones those are? Because you may wanna find out who's in favor of financing. That's a code word for bonding, putting you into debt. And the best thing you can do to stop financing, bonding for Utopia is you vote out of office the 4 members of the Orem City Council, that includes the mayor, who are running for office this time. They're the ones that have a problem, and the m- the mayor is the one who'd already, already said he's ready for it. I know other city councilmen that say they're ready to, for it. But the best thing you can do is you vote all 4 of them out of office. Some of them will tell you that they're not really voting for Utopia. When they talk, they say, "We're voting for conduit," and that's not Utopia. What they don't tell you is the conduit, they say, "This is for everybody." 

And 

they mean by everybody, Comcast could put it in there. Well, they're not going to. They already have most of the city wired. CenturyLink could. But you know who would do it? 

Utopia would do it. They'd be right there, and you're gonna pay to run that conduit throughout this city. I will not vote to put you citizens into debt. If the mayor wanted to do this, and he does, he ought to let you vote on it. And that's one big difference. When I've done these referendums, I want to get your citizen input. I want you to make these decisions on mortgaging your city. 

Let me give you one more reason why they will not let you vote on Utopia. When I did the referendum, 

uh, when it... the first year I was elected, 69% of you said, "No more money for Utopia." 69% of you said no. Now, the city manager says the majority of the city council now is in favor of some type of financing, which means city money, which means your money, my fellow Orem taxpayers. 

That's why they will not let you vote on it, because they already know you will turn it down. You will turn it down. And that's another reason you fire the 4 current city councilmen and the mayor, uh, running for office. Don't vote for any of the incumbents. You're gonna find yourself right back where you were, 

uh, with another city council, another mayor trying to put you into debt for Utopia. 

As I was saying, when Melody and I worked on this referendum and got 69% of you to vote against it, 

we spent our own money. 

I ran those off my own computer. In fact, the referendums that you have seen, if you've seen a referendum in the City of Orem or the City of Provo in the last 6 years, I touched it before you did, because I ran every one of those off on my computer, bought the materials, and helped anyone that was trying to do a referendum so we could get the citizens' input on it. 

You know, 

the mayor and the incumbents have just spent over 42,000 dollars hiring a high-priced attorney in Salt Lake for one reason, to keep you from voting on the BRT. They don't want you to vote on the BRT. 

That money would have been much better spent if they had spent it trying to figure out how to break out of Utopia. One of the reasons that Orem City has never seriously looked at that is our last 3 city managers, including the current city manager, Jamie Davidson, they are all Utopia men. They all favor Utopia. They all favor a government internet system. So there has never been a good faith effort to see if we can break out of this Utopia contract or not. They don't wanna get out of it. They want to have you hung with it, and they wanna raise your taxes or raise your bonding and use current tax revenues to keep Utopia going. And that's one of the things I would do if I were the mayor, is I would instruct the city attorney, "You go work on this project. Instead of figuring out how to take more money away from the taxpayers and stopping them from voting on this stuff, you go work on figuring out how to get out of it." Can you imagine wasting 42,000 dollars of taxpayers' money just to stop the citizens from voting on a referendum that they already voted for? I mean, they signed signatures to petitions saying they wanna vote on it. And I want your input on this. But that's why they will not let you vote on it, because they already know what you're gonna do to them. If you want to have your voice heard on the Utopia question, your vote, then the best thing you can do is fire the 4 incumbents and hire 4 new people who will care about your vote. 

That's what you need, 4 new people who are not gonna figure out how to tax you, bond you, and not let you vote on it. Fire the 4 and hire new 4, 4 new people.